[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So with plants, the nice
thing about a lot of the herbs
that we use here in my house
is that they grow here.
I mean, there's plants that are
extremely good for your body
that grow on your front lawn.
I have dandelions
growing on my front lawn.
Dandelions are
extreme medicinal.
We look at them as weeds.
They are extremely good
at detoxifying our liver.
They're something that's been
used for thousands of years
to help our body heal itself.
And here they are sprouting
up all over our lawns
and asking for us to
start imbibing them.
So I think that a lot
of the herbs that we
could use and could be
the most benefit to us
grow in our yards.
They grow around us.
They grow right down the road.
You can find them
in Whole Foods.
So I like to use herbs,
starting off, just herbs that
taste good, that I could put in
my food, like dandelion greens.
You know?
You can put that into a salad.
You could it into a soup.
It's delicious.
It's also going to help
detoxify your body.
I also love medicinal mushrooms.
And I think that those
are starting to make
a big comeback right now too.
Not even a comeback.
They were never even here.
So maybe they're starting make
a big entrance onto the world
stage of what's available,
dietarily speaking,
to help not only spruce up your
meals, but also heal your body.
So we use a lot of
medicinal mushrooms.
And they also grow around here.
And you'll find
most places, you'll
find some species of
medicinal mushroom
that can be harvested that
can benefit you in some way.
My friend Daniel Vitalis says
that the herbs we need most
tend to sprout up around us.
And it sounds almost like an old
wives' tale or like, you know,
a little myth and a nice way of
thinking about nature and just
a good story.
But it's really interesting.
Like I said before,
like dandelions
sprouting up outside my door.
They sprout up outside
everyone's door here
in the United States.
And guess what the most toxified
culture is in the world?
It's the United States.
Our diets are full of
toxins, pesticides.
And all of a sudden,
this medicine that's
the most perfect
medicine that nature
has to offer us to
detoxify our system
is sprouting up everywhere
asking us to eat it.
So in my opinion, the more
you start dancing with herbs,
the more you start understanding
the subtleties of nature
around you.
The more you start realizing
that the medicine you need
is often growing in your town
or available in your town.
You don't need to go
down to the Amazon.
Don't need to travel
into the Sahara
Desert to that some
far-off oasis to find
the medicine you need.
A lot of times it's growing
in your neighborhood.
There's some plants
that are actually
really good at surviving in
really harsh conditions, which
an ethnobotanist would
tell you that some
of the most medicinal
plants are the ones that
are able to survive in the
harshest environments, a lot
of the most alkaline plants.
We look for alkaloids
in plants to find out
what they're good for.
And a lot of times, the
most medicinal plants
are the most alkaline plants.
And a lot of those
plants are growing only
in harsh conditions.
So it's really
interesting to see plants
that survive our Roundup
and survive the pesticides
and still sprout
up all around us.
What medicine do they have?
I think that there
are some definite--
I don't want to call
them shortcuts--
but there's some definite
allies to get started on.
One of them is using herbs.
And I like to use a category
of herbs called adaptogens
that are known to be great at
modulating stress in the body.
I eat Reishi mushroom
on a regular basis.
I put it in tinctures.
I make teas out of it.
It helps me do things
that I wouldn't otherwise
be uncomfortable about doing,
like step onto a stage in front
of thousands of people
and talk about shamanism,
let's just say.
Might not feel that comfortable.
But with the right plant
allies, as they're commonly
referred to in
different cultures,
the right plant ally will
give you a subtle advantage.
It'll help keep your system
in a state of homeostasis,
even when the
environment around you
gets a little bit more intense.
So I highly recommend
starting to use herbs
and finding that right
subtle herb for you.
For me, it's Reishi mushroom.
It's another herb called
skullcap and a third herb
called ashwagandha.
They all have their
own unique qualities.
And they are perfect for
my own unique physiology.
Because there are some
things you can't get past.
You can definitely evolve
as a spirit, as a soul,
at least in my eyes, some things
genetically are just there.
So how do you use
herbs to try to right
some of the genetic expressions
that might not be helping you?
So that's what I've been
really into these days
is I use ashwagandha.
And I use skullcap
because it helps
to quiet the chatter in my
brain and also boost the tone,
for lack of a better
word, of who I am.
So skullcap grows in the
forest along streams.
And it doesn't grow along
anywhere on the stream.
It grows along the parts of the
stream that are the most rough,
the battling parts.
The parts that are really,
really, really turbid, I guess,
is a good word for it.
You'll find that that's
where the skullcap will
be sprouting up and loving it.
So herbalists look at this,
and they say, well, you know,
a lot of times our
external environment
mimics our internal environment.
So in the woods, if we're
looking at a stream,
what plants are growing
close to the most rough parts
of that stream?
And what could they
possibly be good for?
So I've had it told to me by
a couple different herbalists
that the reason
why skullcap works
to quiet the mental
chatter in your brain
is closely synced up to exactly
what it's doing on that stream.
It loves to grow right
near a lot of babbling,
a lot of extra energy happening.
And so when you
take skullcap, it
has this way of
not pacifying you,
and it's not in any way
dulling your senses,
but it just somehow
quiets the noise.
Everybody here has a
ticker tape of thought
running across
their consciousness
behind their eyeballs
at all times.
It's something that
even the best meditators
in the world, the masters,
they know it's real.
They're not beyond it.
They've learned to accept it.
And they can turn it off.
And they can be OK with
it when it comes back on.
But it's always there.
There's always going to be some
kind of ticker tape of thought.
And so getting an advantage
on that ticker tape
through meditation, through
herbs, other practices,
I think is a huge part of
living this life of purpose.
And seeing the world
as ripe with medicine.
So the skullcap
really does a good job
of quieting that ticker tape.
And ashwagandha does sort
of a complementary thing
of boosting the true you.
That's how it's been
told to me by herbalists.
And it's a really
beautiful part of herbalism
is you start getting
into herbalism,
there's great science to
support all this stuff.
You could find science to
support these same functions
from a medical
perspective in the brain.
But an herbalist
will also tell you
it's more of like the
soul behind that herb,
which I personally
really resonate with.
So ashwagandha is really
good at supporting you.
It's a good at lifting you up
without it being a stimulant,
like coffee.
It's good at boosting your
tone, the who that you want
to have show up in the world.
It's good at doing that without
giving you any jittery energy.
So combining ashwagandha
with skullcap
is a really, really nice thing
to do because it boosts you.
And it also kind of turns the
volume down on all the noise.
So I use that along with an
adaptogen like Reishi, which
is great at modulating stress.
And it allows me
to live that life.
So there are, conservatively,
80,000 plus species
of plants in the jungle,
the Amazon jungle alone.
Of those 80,000-- and that
number continues to go up.
My ethnobotanist friends,
it seems like every year
they're finding more.
Even though the jungle's
being burned down,
they're finding even
more species of plants.
But of that 80,000 species of
plants, less than 3% of them
have been studied for
their medicinal value.
Of that 3%, a number
of modern medicines
have been synthesized.
3%.
Why aren't we looking
at the other 97%?
And this is true of the
world's rainforests.
25% of the most effective
cancer treatments
that we're seeing
in hospitals are
derived from rainforest plants.
So why are we not looking?
Why are we not
exploring everything
that nature has to offer?
The only practical reason
that I can see is money.
You can't patent plants.
So unless you can find something
that you can synthesize,
a constituent that can
be reproduced in a lab,
there's no money to be made.
And medicine, as we're
all starting to see,
big pharma, I
think, is a concept
that just about everyone is
aware of now, it's money.
Starts with money.
It's a big business.
So until we start
putting value in nature
and its ability to heal us,
and until we de-emphasize
the monetary association
with health care,
I don't think we're going
to see much exploration
of the other 97%
of those plants.
Doesn't seem like
it's a wise business
decision for
institutions that are
bent on making as much
profit as they possibly can.
Cannabis is fascinating to
me because it indicates to me
that the masses are starting
to say enough is enough.
You can only be failed by modern
medicine for so many years
until you start asking questions
about what else is out there.
I think cannabis is
definitely paving the way.
Until recently, it was
not available to be
studied in universities
because of legality issues.
But over the last few
decades, now we're
starting to dig into it.
And we're seeing the
importance of the ECS,
or the endocannabinoid
system, and how
that controls pain, or at
least affects heavily pain,
appetite, sleep
cycles, exercise.
I think it's one of those
that is front and center.
And once people realize
the power of cannabis
and the different
constituents to heal the body,
it's going to open up
the opportunity for us
to look at all the other plants,
whether they're psychoactive,
like psilocybin, and its
effects with trauma and end
of life issues.
Or whether we're just
talking about chamomile.
There's all kinds
of plants out there
that have incredible
healing value.
And for some reason,
somewhere along the line,
we wrote them off.
Everyone should be using herbs.
I think that we're all
using herbs anyway.
If you're eating a salad,
you're using herbs.
I just think it's
about us going deeper
with our understanding
of herbs and learning
which herbs are our allies.
You know, everybody
has an herbal ally.
Mine happens to be Reishi,
ashwagandha, and skullcap.
But I think when people
find their perfect herb,
it's extremely empowering.
I think it's about being
cautious, making distinctions,
moving slowly.
We live in a culture
of convenience,
a culture of the quick fix.
We want results now.
We want a good time now.
We want to feel better now.
And if there's anything
that the traditional healing
path has taught me is
that it's not about that.
It's about improvement every
single day, one step at a time,
learning how to enjoy the
process, make distinctions.
And from there, you'll be
better before you know it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]